{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1343\cocoasubrtf160
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1. 
\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Why are you applying to this Galvanize Program?
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
Studying philosophy in college gave me a true appreciation and love for analytical thinking. After graduation, I chose to pursue a job in a craft oriented field in which I could see the fruits of my labor hourly. This feeling is unbelievably rewarding. The more I pursued coding recreationally, it became obvious that for me, it was a perfect marriage of my academic and professional passions and skill set. Coding allows me to apply creativity and ingenuity to the crafting of a tangible element. For me, being able to use logic and sound reasoning on a day to day basis is an important part of work. But it's not enough to merely think over complex issues. Though this is rewarding, it's not completely satisfying. At the end of the day, viewing a finished product, or seeing progress is invaluable. Galvanize would increase my ability to apply this new skill set, as well as increase the likelihood of being able to do so in a professional setting. Having completed one 4-year degree, I like the idea of being taught in an intensive program, with the essential aspects of the skill at hand brought to light.\
\
2. 
\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Tell us about your professional and educational background.
\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
I started working at Coal Creek Coffee Company as a full-time student during my freshman year at the University of Wyoming. This is a job I held through the duration of my schooling, moving up from a barista, into a shift-manager, and then finally into a store-manager and barista trainer. My degree was a dual degree in Philosophy and Environment and Natural Resources which is a policy based environmental program. During my 4-years at university, I had amply opportunity to explore electives and focused that time on; music, american indian studies, and literature. My years spent in school and at work were very rewarding. After graduation, I travelled in Japan, and then returned to hospitality work, this time as a chef. I have worked in a number of restaurants in Wyoming and Colorado, most recently as a line cook and then sous chef for the Kitchen Next Door in Union Station and then running the culinary program at a mountain lodge called Spear-O-Wigwam.\
\
3. What are you goals after graduating from Galvanize\'92s Immersive Program?\
\
Software and web development are an integral part of many if not all emerging companies and NGOs.  Living in Denver for the last two years I have seen many Colorado grown organizations flourish. It would be my goal to work for one of these local companies, young or established, in a field of my interest. Two specific organizations come to mind. ReWork is a company that matches potential employees to mission driven companies, matching like minded businesses, with like minded employees. ReWork is not only locally grown, but doing things that change the way that companies do business. Working on a similar project upon graduation would be amazing, and Galvanize gives me the tools to achieve this goal. Another company that comes to mind is Active Junky. Being in the mountains, specifically rock climbing is my first passion. Using my skill set acquired at Galvanize to work for a company that promotes this lifestyle is absolutely on the top of my list. Locally grown innovative companies are who I want to work for upon my graduation.\
\
4. Tell us about a time when you had to solve a complex problem. What was your approach?\
\
Commercial kitchens are fast paced and high stress environments. Running a commercial kitchen can be even more brought with peril, as you are dependent on many people for a successful operation, and many diners are depending on you to be able to pull off delicious food. Occasionally, the food a chef gets from a purveyor is not of the quality that the chef desires, but that chef needs it to get through the day, and must make do. On Cinco de Mayo of last year, the restaurant I was working in was running a steak taco special and it was to be the highlight of the day. When I arrived in the morning to begin preparing the different elements of the steak dish, a cook informed me that the steak we had received was no good and could not be used. At this time, I was in charge of the kitchen, and responsible for making sure that our guests for the had a special that reflected the holiday. However, I couldn\'92t try to make a new special out of just any product we had, because we needed to maintain our regular menu items as well. I went about solving the issue of the daily special by first going over our inventory to see what we had an excess of that day, and could be used for the dish. This product could not be too expensive as that would undermine our food cost for the week, and it had to be something that our guests would enjoy. I identified all the criteria that needed to be fulfilled by the dish and would not hurt our restaurant in any other way. Furthermore, whatever recipe that I came up with had to be easily replicated given the systems we had in place for our cooks. I had to create something new that fit into the all of the systems that were already in place to successfully run the restaurant. My approach directly was to identify all of the elements that had to be taken into consideration, develop a method to fulfill each of the requirements for the dish, and work it into our pre existing system for cooking food, as well as pricing food. Only then could I cook the dish and present it to the staff.\
\
5.\
\
I have complete the bootcamp preparation course from codeacademy specific to Galvanize. I plan on continuing in the programs they have to offer in addition to exploring what other resources are available to me.  I truly look forward to hearing back from you, and having an opportunity to interview.\
\
\
}